Can we pronounce your name, Kate?
Pocock.
Pocock, okay, very good.
So tell me a little bit, how long have you been?
I joined in 89, in July 89.
Wow, so you have an overview.
I have an overview, yes.
I've been here for, I mean, it still feels as if I haven't really been here all that long, because as they know the publishing house, things change a lot with the books, and the seasons, the seasons change with the books, so one feels as if you're doing something new, everything.
So when you came in, they were,
It was doing pretty well.
John Nichol had been there for a long time.
So he had already done his miracle worker job.
He'd done his miracle worker job, yes.
You know, it's really quite extraordinary that the Yale University Press
has a genuine UK division.
Yes, we do, yes.
I think we're still the only really genuine.
I mean, they have basically sales offices or something like that.
Sales and distribution and marketing.
And it gives them an excuse to put London on their copyright pages, you know, like University of California and the others.
Exactly.
Princeton now has an office in Oxfordshire, but it's tiny.
It's very small.
It's an editorial office?
Editorial office, yes.
I mean, they're bringing in, I don't know, 10 books a year.
So when you came in, how many titles are you in here?
Well, I actually got the catalogue out, because I just wanted to be reminded of what we were doing at that time.
This is the first catalogue, and that was the catalogue then, which was very small.
When you came?
When I came, and this is our latest catalogue.
And you'll see that it's...
Now this is, when you say ours, you mean?
That's everything.
That's both London and the American office.
And that New Haven, right?
But you'll see that it's thin.
I think we were probably only doing about perhaps 40 books at that time in the London office, and now we're doing double that.
So this is, is this just London, or is this London?
No, that's everything.
A Yale book is a Yale book wherever it's published, basically.
But this is a pretty small list.
It's a small list, and here's the equivalent.
Which I've seen.
You've seen that, yes.
So that's much, much bigger.
This is amazing.
and so to look at this we have to be really sophisticated to know what's a London yes you wouldn't you wouldn't know unless I told you I don't think you would know I mean we tend in the London office because the London books are by their own nature books that we think are going to have a trade market and that's really our sort of that's our operating mission over here is to produce more trade books than monographs we
tend to put them at the front because this is not just uh this is not just for librarians and academics. This is for the trade too. So the books at the front are on the whole London. So we you see yourself as a trade publisher basically? On the whole it's although we don't really fit in. We don't quite fit in. I mean we have fitted in with um with the Ernst Gombrich book we've just done. I don't know whether you know about that. No. It's a wonderful book. It's um a book that yeah Ernst Gombrich
wrote when he was a young man for Walter Neurath, who was then, before he'd started Tempton Hudson over here, before the war.
And he was asked by Neurath to look at a small book for children, a history of the world for children.
You know that.
And he looked at it, and he said, this is rubbish.
That's an extraordinary book.
He looked at it and said, this is rubbish, I could do better.
And he said, well, you can do it in three weeks, it's yours.
And he did it in three weeks, and of course it's a gem.
This book has really generated a lot of
Yes, yes, yes.
And it's wonderful.
It's a wonderful book, and we've sold huge quantities of it.
I mean, we've done more than I ever remember doing for a year.
So as a sales and a marketing person, when you get a book like that... Not very often, but it's a journal.
Well, we worked very hard to plan how that was going to work.
How it was going to look was terribly important.
But did you have this buzz before you?
Oh, yes.
I mean, with a name like Gombrich.
With a name like Gombrich, you're bound to.
And what we were worried about was that it would be seen as a children's book.
And as that, it would be seen as very old-fashioned.
Because it's not up-to-date.
I mean, there's no doubt it's not an up-to-date book.
So we were looking very carefully about how to market that and how to make it look like a young...
a book for young people, but not limited to that.
So it's production as much as it is marketing?
The marketing department was really involved in the production of that book.
And I think that the edition that you did here is somewhat different.
It's slightly different.
It's got end papers.
It's got slightly better quality paper.
and the jacket is slightly different, slightly yellower. And why do you think that was necessary? Um I think we wanted to make it look like a really class act and um perhaps the u.s office, I mean it was printed separately, they chose to do it in that way. It's done equally I mean it was done you know just as well there, so they obviously made the right decision too. Um but it was a joy. Does that happen often where the same book is done differently? Yes uh not not it happened more funnily enough when I first arrived
When, particularly a book by Girard, for instance, we did, the Americans decided they didn't mark our jacket at all, so they did a different jacket.
And the book was the same, but they did a different jacket.
And this is the first book or the second one?
Oh, no, this is probably all about the fifth or sixth book, when I first arrived, and it was about country towns.
And we did a market scene.
The Americans didn't like that, so they did their own jacket.
It means that you can't swap stock around quite so, you know, it's not quite so easy to swap around.
So would the book itself have been printed in the same place?
Yes, yes, just different jackets.
But now this one we were just talking about, that was... That was printed in the UK and in the States.
This photography is different, even the layers of... Oh, I don't think so.
I don't think so.
No, I think it's the same.
We used the same disc in both countries.
But it's just different paper.
Different paper.
It's the production rather than the design.
It's a tiny bit different, I think.
But that sort of book doesn't come across, we don't come across it very often, but when we do, it's wonderful to do it.
So, you know, it's kind of interesting to be writing a story about a university press, but which regards itself as a business operation.
Yes, we have to, yeah, we have to, you know, we have to stand up, we have to be self-sufficient.
We can't call on the U.S.
office to prop us up.
And do you think that's kind of the marching orders from the U.S.
as well?
I think so.
I think they, you know, they, perhaps I wouldn't say this to Tom Donatish, but on the whole, we are left to get on with it by ourselves because we can do it.
And, of course, the editorial department here is providing books that sell extremely well in the States for the American office as well as for here.
So, you know, the American office is pleased to have those books too.
So when you have a book and you develop a strategy, you would do it perhaps the same way that a trade house would?
Yes.
Oh, absolutely.
I mean, I came from a trade background.
I mean, I started at Oxford University first, but as a very junior here.
And then I learned a bit about publishing then, but then I worked for a long time for a trade house.
Which was?
Gollants, Victor Gollants.
And when it was, I mean, luckily for me, when it was bought for the first time by Hogan Mifflin, John Nickell approached me and asked me to come here.
So it was thrilling, you know, just wonderful.
So John pretty much put together his team here, didn't he?
Oh, yes, he did.
Oh, absolutely, yes, he did, yes.
He did.
And it's grown quite a lot since I joined.
He is quite an individual.
Oh, yes, he is.
Yes, he's terrific.
John Wyden...
You know, he just credits him with... Oh, he's terrific.
The phrase he used is that this was the cash cow.
Yeah.
Those were his words.
He used that, did he?
Yes, that's good.
And I mentioned that to John Nickel today, and he said, did he say that?
Yeah, exactly.
I would have asked him.
He never said that at the time.
He said, because they never said it back then.
No, he never said it at the time.
So you got here, even after this explosion in extraordinary art books,
When I joined Yale, all I knew it for was for the art books.
And that's amazing.
And I've been reviewing books since the 70s.
And one of the reasons I said, yeah, sure, when I was invited to do this project is the great respect and admiration for these books that nobody else even comes close to doing.
And it's...
Not necessarily what you'd expect to be in a purview of a university, right?
No, no, no, exactly.
Gorgeously, and I hesitate to call them commercial because of the scholarship and so on.
Oh, yes, that's right, yes.
But they're exquisite books.
Yes, they are exquisite.
That has really great substance to them as well.
Yes.
When you talk to Gillian, you will... I mean, Gillian Malpass really has taken the John Nicol baton on, as far as Yale Art books are concerned.
and with our colleague Sally Salverson, who looks after.
I don't know whether John talked about the Pelican history of art.
He didn't.
Ah, well, I must tell you a bit about that.
Well, shortly after I joined, it was clear that Penguin was really not doing much with the Pelican history of art, which was started, incidentally, by Gombrich, by Ernst Gombrich.
So we were able to buy it from them.
And at the time, both John and I said, it would be really great to get Pebsner.
I mean, Pebsner in this country is...
Just such a name.
The Pebsner List.
Oh, I see.
Do you know the list?
No, I don't.
I'll show you one.
It is basically, Pebsner came over from... How do you spell?
P-E-B-S-N-E-R.
And he decided that he was going to describe every notable building in the Great British Islands.
Sure went to Pebsner.
Yes.
And he started this series for Penguin in the, I think it was probably about the 30s or 40s.
Anyway, when he came, I mean, he was a refugee, he came over and started this, as so many people in British publishing did, and I guess American publishing too, but, you know, British publishing would be very impoverished without the huge influx of German publishers.
So...
both John and I thought this would be so wonderful to get our hands on this series from Penguin who weren't really doing much I did at the time so we worked and worked and worked with it and eventually of course we got it and it's a huge success now of course this list doesn't do anything really in the States but here it is the foot in the door for trade for us for our reps going into trade bookshops it absolutely is when you go into a bookshop in any county in any town the first thing you look for is the local person if they haven't got it
They're not a good bookshop.
Oh, yeah, absolutely.
So do you call these travel books?
Well, they're guidebooks, basically.
They're guidebooks.
But they're more than that.
They are, you know, they're very much on the Yale, you know, in the Yale model, really.
Is that what it's called, the Buildings of England?
Buildings of England, yes.
Buildings of Britain.
Buildings of England, that one is, yes.
And before you go, I'll give you a list of all of them.
Oh, great.
Yeah, let me do it.
With a poster.
And we do about, you know, four a year.
New ones are there?
Yes, new ones.
It's like painting the full fridge, you know, you finish one, and then new buildings have been built, and old ones have been knocked down, so you have to start all over again.
So do they revise them?
Yes, they do, yes.
Well, that's quite interesting.
How many university professors do something like that?
I don't know, I don't think they do.
I don't think they do.
Strictly the UK?
Strictly the UK, yes, yes.
There are no Buildings of Italy or anything? No we do that in different ways, but not in not in this I mean it's obsessional really. It's every building you know you we've got one of London too of course. And so one person did that? One person, well he didn't, he had an army of funds of uh of help those of course. Really I think he's rude he's rude about buildings you know he's not he's not polite about them. And he's still alive? No he died several. He died in the early 70s so
So the new team who work in this building are carrying on the world.
They still keep his name.
They keep his name because it's such a... People will, you know, if you... It's like Dr. Spock's Guide to... Exactly.
Exactly.
That's right.
But if you, you know, it's very often you'll open a book like the Emma Keown book, Saturday.
One of the...
the characters in that mentions the fact that the book, that their building is in their home.
Well I haven't read it yet.
I well do.
I think it's that one, but certainly an Ian McEwan book.
It makes sense, because he would have that kind of... Exactly, that sort of locality.
Yeah, exactly.
Which he always does.
That's right.
You know, given a good kit in Pesna, he'd say.
I mean, just words like Pesna.
And sometimes when an estate agent, a real estate agent, is selling a book, it will say, mentioned in Pesna.
Really?
They've been a lot around you say since like a. Long time since the 30s and 40s. Yeah really. Yeah and and you'll give me a list of. I will give you a list before you go. So what do you think that I need to know about the London? Well I wanted to tell you I mean you've heard from John I mean that will be the definitive story of this office
And I got two hours of him on tape.
Good, good, good.
What I wanted to tell you about was... And excuse me if I seem a little loopy.
No, not at all.
You're not.
And if we follow up at some point... Absolutely.
I'll think of other things, I'm sure.
If I seem like I'm not asking intelligent questions, forgive me.
You're asking intelligent questions.
Which is why I'm kind of throwing the ball to you right now.
Yes, okay.
What I wanted to tell you about was something that we do...
Well, you know about the publishing.
You've heard from Robert and from John, and you'll hear from Gillian about particularly the art list, which is so crucially important for us.
But what we have done here and what we started, I suppose, after I'd been here about a year and a half, when I first joined here, we were represented in the trade by a group of freelance group, basically, which was just a group of salaried reps.
And this worried me.
I felt sure that if we really wanted to be taken seriously in the British book trade, we should have our own representatives.
And we talked about this internally, about how we could do this.
We clearly didn't have the sort of turnover which would allow us to have the sort of coverage that we had with the five reps who were carrying our list as well as many others.
So then what we decided to do was to buy the little company who were carrying our books.
And with it, we brought in... What was the name of the company?
It was called Ken Dickson.
D-I-C-K-S-O-N.
So it was named after a person.
Named after a person.
Ken was coming up for retirement.
And the largest list that they carried was Taylor & Francis, which, of course, has been bought and has grown so many times since then.
And he was just about to lose that list.
So for him, it was a crucial time.
And when we talked about it, we suddenly realised there's this thing to do, to buy this little company.
which we did for a pound.
And we bought one for one pound.
I mean, you can't really buy something which is not tenable, you know, it's not... There's no infrastructure.
No, exactly.
There's goodwill, maybe.
Exactly.
Goodwill, we hope.
And we thought... And a client list, maybe.
Exactly, maybe.
But they might have decided, oh, we don't want to be owned by Yale University Press.
Anyway, we call it Yale Representation.
And now we have...
four representatives two of them were with us when we took the list over in probably 83 93 and we represent a number of other publishers to the trade and it's terrific because it brings in turnover for us the reps are salaried members of staff of Yale representation which is in turn owned by Yale University Press and we get huge coverage because the
The scope of the lists we carry is great.
Anything from the British Library, Manchester University Press, Bodleian Library I told you about, and a company called David Fulton, which is a book publisher of educational books for student teachers.
So it's quite a broad list and it gets us into shops, bookshops, that we probably wouldn't have the opportunity to get into
without this sort of clout of a large-ish list.
None of them interfere with our list.
They're complementary but not competition.
Do you think people find the name Yale intimidating?
I think they do.
And especially at the moment when the British book trade is going through, the retail book trade, is going through something of a crisis.
You know, we're sort of shaking down with Amazon and Waterston just about
either to buy up Ottercus or be sold itself.
We don't know where we are with Waterstones.
I didn't realize they were having a hard time.
Yeah, they were having a hard time.
They used to have a wonderful store of boxes.
Oh, they did.
I mean, you won't have a chance to go into them now, but they are like any other, you know, one bookshop is exactly like wherever you are.
They're like Waters and Barnes & Noble.
Exactly the same.
And, you know, three for two, all the same.
It's the marketplace.
It is the marketplace, yes.
So that makes it difficult because, yeah, exactly, it is.
They've got to survive.
I mean, my view is that they should specialise, but still, I don't think they'll... It'll be difficult to turn back the clock, so we just have to, you know, get in there as much as we can with as much product as we can.
But as far as our...
So you asked me a question now, and I forgot what it was.
Well, is the Yale intimidating people?
Yes, the Yale, yes.
But both Yale and University Press are intimidating to young booksellers who haven't perhaps been there very long, haven't been properly trained.
They think, first of all, yeah, oh, that's American.
You know, we're going to have to get it from America.
It's going to be hard.
And then University Press, oh, it must be really scholarly.
So it's actually two strikes.
Yeah, it's two strikes.
So going in with books that we, you know, we've got a reputation.
good reputation in this country but you know it's enforcing that again and again and again with a new generation of book buyers all the time all the time do you have a sense of who your core reader is who your most loyal reader yes i mean with pebsna when we bought pebsna of course we brought in a whole constituency of loyal book buyers it when every time a new pebsna comes out they want it they want to know when the next one is coming out they want to know what it's about
which county it's going to be doing.
So what a great opportunity.
Huge opportunity.
Absolutely fantastic.
You know, to bring the other stuff.
Wonderful.
And it brought with them a wonderful website and a fantastic e-mailing list and ordinary mailing list.
So that was terrifically important.
Is it all generated here, the website?
Yes.
We have two websites, one in the States and one here.
One interesting one.
They link to each other, of course.
But ours is in the same way as our catalogue is different.
Our website is different from the U.S.
one.
Basically because we think we know...
as you say, who our core market is.
And it is very much for our art books, the sort of people who go to exhibitions, who you'll see at the World Academy or see at the National Gallery queuing for an exhibition.
And in history, it's very much the sort of person who buys History Today magazine, who will watch history programs on the BBC, who will buy the BBC History magazine.
Middle-aged, younger?
Middle-aged, growing older, so we have to be sure.
to try to attract the younger audience.
So how do you do that?
With this?
With the catalogue, with emailings.
Of course we do emailings to a lot of academics.
Exhibitions.
Do you measure them?
Is there any way to measure whether or not... We measure it by stripes and we measure it by sales.
And what we found interesting is that, again and again, people will look at our website.
They can get everything they want on the website.
They can look through all our books in print.
But what they will ask for, what they will email us for, is a copy of the paper catalogue.
It's very curious that that continues.
I think it's attractive.
You mean they can... They can see anything.
They can see this online.
They can see this catalogue online.
The full contents.
They can search all our books in print, but they always come back and want a catalogue.
They do.
That's amazing.
It is extraordinary, isn't it?
So how many catalogues do you think normally in a given season that you'll distribute like that?
It's about, we print about 15,000.
Really?
Yeah, yeah.
And we get, you know, we send those out to mailing lists, to book members of the public, booksellers, reviewers, of course, to write to foreign publishers for rights.
We take them to conferences and exhibitions, a lot of specialist ones, of course, as well as the London Book Fair, the Frankfurt Book Fair.
And people, we...
You know, they melt away.
They melt away.
Isn't that something?
It is.
And they must have order for them.
They've got an order for them, of course.
So you can... You can judge that.
But most people still either get buying from them.
And the impact of Amazon, I cannot underestimate, or overestimate, I never know which it is.
I can't say how important Amazon has been to us.
Really?
And how it has changed our sales in the last couple of years, basically.
We...
We started off very tentatively with them, and they would just order what they wanted.
But then, 18 months ago, we decided we would go on to their advantage program, which basically means that they take every single one of our books on consignment into their warehouse.
Wow.
And they don't pay for them until they sell them.
So we have a van going back and forth from our warehouse.
Well, that's changed the whole day.
Completely.
So when someone looks at Amazon now, they don't see, you know, oh, it's Yale University Press, so it'll be difficult for them to get it.
They see available in 24 hours.
So Amazon spices it, makes it very attractive.
Yeah.
They've made it terrifically important.
To you, because they'll list all of your titles.
They list all our books.
They're all available.
And on the other hand, you make it irresistible to them.
You don't have to put out any money.
No, they don't.
So they probably had any returns there.
They didn't have any returns.
No, you don't have returns.
But it's expensive because, of course, there's the conciliation.
Yeah, you have to tie up inventory.
I mean, we do that.
We're distributed by Wiley in this country, who are very efficient.
And, of course, they distribute it for a number of people.
So they're doing it for the other people as well as themselves.
So is that basically how Amazon works?
With us, they work like that.
With Wiley, they work like that.
Do they actually buy books from them?
On the whole, they buy from people, yes.
The Advantage program isn't able to once.
Not everybody wants to go into it.
So that's a specific program called the Advantage Program.
Advantage Program, which we went into willingly.
Now, here are Yale back in New Haven as well.
I think Yale and New Haven do it slightly differently.
But of course, again, it's terrifically important for them now, too.
So you have different kinds of sales?
Different kinds of sales, yes.
I mean, Amazon will go into the... People looking on Amazon.
I mean, Yale and London have different kinds of sales with the same people.
Yeah, we do.
Oh, yes, we do, yes.
I mean, our difficulty at the moment, and this isn't really of relevance, but I will tell you, because it is an interesting one, is the fact that the dollar is so weak at the moment, or rather the pound and the euro is strong.
So if we want to, in order to pay for our books to be marketed, distributed, publicised, we have to mark up our books from the US price.
Sometimes we sort of decide not to do that, because we know that it's going to be a really tradey book.
The Gombrich, for instance, is absolutely at par.
It's the same price here as it is in the States.
But booksellers and customers now are so sophisticated, they can look on Amazon, they can look anywhere to see which is the cheapest place to source this book.
So that was one reason we were particularly keen to go into the Amazon Advantage Programme, because they promised
Amazon promised, and I believe that they are keeping to their promise, that they would source their books from the UK and not source from the US, which is what they were doing before.
Hence, you know, the long time to get the books.
Interesting, interesting.
So that was quite important.
So just in the last 18 months, so here we are in March, so we're talking late 04.
Yeah, late 04.
We decided to go in with them.
So you've actually been able to measure that?
Oh, yes.
I mean, it's nearly 200%.
Wow.
Admittedly, of course, it means that our sales to wholesalers have gone down, but not to the extent that our turnover has gone up with Amazon.
So our proportion of sales with Waterstones five years ago was a quarter of our home trade turnover.
Now it's 15%.
Wow.
Independent booksellers, that turnover is beginning now to get better.
Is it?
Yeah, because they're beginning to specialise.
Sales through museums and galleries is steady.
It's pretty steady, but that's a really important part of ours.
Basically the art books.
The art books, yes.
Certainly our art books.
Very interesting.
I haven't even thought about these.
What else do you think?
What else do I think about this?
That would be useful.
I don't depend on you today.
I'm totally out of steam.
Forgive me.
No, no, not at all.
I'm sorry, it's really difficult for you.
It's wonderful.
I requested this, so I'm very happy to have it.
It's very good.
I'm trying to think of other things.
Well, Yale representation I've talked about a bit.
And I've talked about, I mean, John will have told you, and perhaps he won't have done, how
You know, the size of it has changed.
And we talked about when we moved here from Belsize Park.
We moved three years ago from Belsize Park.
She only been here for three years?
We've only been in this building for three years, yes.
So that's 03, right?
03, yes.
We moved in 03, that's right.
And, of course, then shortly afterwards, John's circumstances changed.
Actually, no.
No, his wife died before we moved.
He told me he left in 04, I think.
He left fully in 04, that's right.
But his wife died when we were still in Hampstead.
And then, of course, I mean, the whole, you know, everything shifted quite dramatically because he then had to look after his wife's company.
And he was looking after both us and the US, and Francis Lincoln, which was really hard.
And it was hard for him.
And...
And it became clear that it was not the best way for either of us.
And he'd been here for 30 years, I guess.
Exactly.
It was really hard for him.
Terribly hard.
I mean, not just losing his wife and those absolutely appallingly tragic circumstances, but also then having to... He wanted to sustain, to keep her publishing company going.
And apparently it's quite successful.
It's doing okay, yes.
You told me he's doing some children's books now.
Yeah, they've always been good at children's books.
They do really well.
Of course, he had no experience in doing it.
It wouldn't be surprising if Yale would have been some children's books.
Well, in a way, with the Gombrich, it was a sort of children's book.
Exactly.
But I did a bit of work on, well, I did quite a lot of work, but children's books at Gallants, because they had a very important children's list.
And it did a different market altogether.
Yeah, but for University Press.
Oh, U.P.
still did that after.
At Oxford University Press.
They have quite a few.
Yeah, and that was an important part when I was there.
But Oxford is basically a trade publisher.
It's basically a trade publisher, isn't it?
Yes.
Certainly the New York imprint, which is what I see.
Do they do children's books in New York?
They must do it.
Well, I know I get them.
I review children's books.
Oh, do you?
I write them up for children's books.
I love them.
Yeah, I know I do, too.
My wife and I have been reviewing them for 15 or 20 years, and I just wrote one, in fact.
Do you?
Yeah, it's with my 8 to 12.
Oh.
Nice.
So I don't want him to do it.
You know the artist Barry Moser?
No, I don't.
He did the King James Bible, the Penny Royal Press is his press.
Oh, right, right, right.
He did the Huckleberry Finn, the Alice's Adventure.
A contemporary of ours.
Oh, he's alive.
He's alive, yes.
He's a few years older than myself.
He's illustrated about 300 books.
He's really a very, very prominent.
Yes.
Well, he and I have... You've done his book together?
decided to do a series of children's books.
Yes.
Books about books and the lives of people.
Oh, wonderful.
A book on the life is what I'm calling it.
And my first one's about Abraham Lincoln, the Honest Abe's book of grammar, how he... Oh, hi, yes.
He passed the second grade.
I didn't know that.
And it's a well-documented story, but hardly ever written about us, how it
He actually walked six miles to get a book of grammar to teach himself how to become a public speaker.
Oh, goodness.
Memorize it.
Then you can argue that the Gettysburg Address and the American Fiction Proclamation and all of these things come out of this book.
Oh, how wonderful is one book?
Well, I mean, I don't know if you can say it all.
No, no, but I mean, that was the seed, yes.
Well, he'd been reading as a kid.
Yeah.
He did this actually when he was like 22 years old.
when he moved to New Salem.
I mean, it's very well documented, and I just, this is just so much good anecdotal stuff, you know.
I thought I'd try it, 3,000 words, see what happens.
Wonderful.
And I think it took me a month to write it, you know, which is probably a lot longer than I needed to spend on it.
I just kept, and I gave it to my agent.
He just sent it out this past weekend.
Great.
Who knows?
I even loved it.
Lincoln's
Bicentennial is coming up.
Oh, good, good, good, yes.
Shortly.
Oh, is it?
Gosh, that's something you ought to know about.
Oh, nine, I think it is.
Yes.
When is our centennial?
I should know, but I don't know.
When have you got to get this book done by?
Oh, eight.
Oh, eight?
My goodness, you haven't got long.
Well, I'm supposed to have it done this year.
Actually, John wants to publish it next year.
Oh, does he?
Good.
I haven't started writing it yet, but it's... Autumn, autumn, oh, seven, I think you would do it, would we?
I think so, yeah.
Yeah, yeah, good.
I'll start writing soon.
Yeah.
As soon as I feel I have this critical mass... You've got all of it there, yes, yes.
I live 90 minutes from New Haven, so... Oh, do you?
Yes, you can live in there.
So I've been spending a lot of time there.
Yes, yeah.
You'll have to forgive me if I'm not asking with... You're doing fine, you're doing fine.
I mean, wouldn't I like to tell you about how the marketing department works?
Yes, that would be... I mean, basically, this marketing department works quite separate from... but linked all the time with the American office.
Mm-hmm.
So, because the way that the British book trade works is different from the way that the American book trade works.
And we look after here, and I don't know whether you saw in our catalogue, we look after everywhere here except North America, South America, Canada, Japan, Korea, and where else?
Taiwan.
I don't know why those were picked out, but anyway, we look after everywhere else.
So we look after the rest of Southeast Asia, but not those places.
That's interesting.
So I don't know quite how it works, but anyway.
But when you look at that, you'll see what the London office controls.
And of course, our biggest market is the United Kingdom, and the next big market is the rest of Europe, and then the rest of the world is in varying stages of good or not good.
So in this, I run the department and we have three sections.
We have publicity, which is where I sit.
That's the publicity manager there.
We have a sales manager who also looks after year of representation.
So he looks after that as well as sales.
And a direct man, an advertising manager who does everything else, basically.
She does all advertising, all catalogs.
So she's working on the new one of that.
The website, virtually everything.
I mean, she does everything that we pay for on the way of publicity.
And they each have assistants.
And I look after, as well as having overall control, I tend to look after the export market with my job share assistant.
And that works pretty well.
But we do have a very good reputation here for getting good coverage of our books.
And this last weekend has been a really good one.
We've got a wonderful one.
It was a book on John Wilkes, the 18th century book.
politician, which was an American book, which has got terrific legal coverage this weekend.
So we hope that that will... Now Wilkes is an American?
Wilkes is a British MP, rather a rake, rather an exciting sort of interesting and outlandish man.
So now you say you've got reviews?
We've got good review coverage, yes.
We have a review
file that goes around once a month, you know, thick with all the review coverage you've got.
So we were pleased with that this last weekend.
And we do a catalogue twice a year, seasonal catalogue twice a year, and little subject catalogues, as well as flyers, you know, which go out to specialist lists.
So if we're doing a book about Victorian architecture, we would send out a flyer to the Victorian Society.
and they would send it out to their members who do special mailings through that.
And of course, increasingly, email and the internet is becoming an important part.
And can you measure that?
It's difficult to tell.
We do have... We can measure sales, which are still relatively, I mean, really small, through our own website.
And of course, I told you about Amazon, we know how important that's been.
But people on the whole don't... I mean, I don't go to a publisher.
I don't go to a publisher's site.
Do you?
No.
No, I wouldn't.
I might look up to see a little... If I can't find it elsewhere.
Yeah, exactly.
But on the whole, I go to Amazon.
I've done it maybe two or three times in my life.
But you know publishers.
You know which the publisher's likely to be.
And you know roughly who published it.
Most people in the world pay no attention to publishers.
They don't.
Exactly.
The first question I always ask is who published the book.
I know.
I always look.
We always look on the spine.
Always.
Always look on the spine to see who published it.
You know, I wanted to know who published your books.
Mm-hmm.
So, you know, it's always interesting to know who would publish it, because they have a sense of it.
But I don't think the punters, I don't think customers do.
They don't at all.
They really don't.
I mean, you know, art historians might think, oh, yes, Yale, that'll be a good book.
You know, we know about it.
It'll be well produced.
We know it'll be well illustrated.
And we know it'll be authoritative.
But on the whole, people don't.
I mean,
Penguin, I know, you know.
I know what sort of books he would be doing.
But on the whole, I don't go straight to someone's network.
No, he does.
Just people who are in the business, writers or editors.
Exactly.
And when we go to a bookshop, we see our book, and we try and put them up front.
Try and put them face out so people will see them.
Yeah, of course.
So when you say you had a good week last week. Yes it was. I mean. It was just the reviews? It was the reviews and you know the the sales were good and we got a shipment in from the states which means that you know back orders have been fulfilled so it was quite a good week. Yes it's really great when you get that and when you release a new book of course that's nice too. You to the that when a book is released to the to the trade, it's nice to see how many go out and you know to plot
Do you have the same kind of returns?
We do.
Nothing like as bad.
It's crept up to about 12% or 13% average over the year.
I know it's horrific in the States.
It's much worse.
It's the only business I know of where you sell something but you really don't.
Exactly, you don't.
Are you giving these people free, basically, product?
Absolutely.
What are they doing with them?
They hardly open the boxes.
So they can order whatever they want?
They can order whatever they want.
And of course, when we had the netbook system here, when we had post-maintenance,
When that went, the problem of returns would be finished, because booksellers would have exactly the same opportunity to reduce the prices as any other retailer would have.
But somehow, returns keep coming back.
I don't understand why we have allowed it to happen, but it has happened.
Well, I know as an author, and I've never had much of a return.
Most of my books have done okay.
you get some returns, but it allows the publisher to hold back 40% of your royalties, you know.
Oh, right.
You know, by the time I get a payment, you know, it's... Oh, they filled that into your contract today.
I didn't realize that.
Oh, yeah, yeah.
They can hold back whatever the percentage is based on... I see.
...as a hedge against returns.
I see.
And then when you finally get your royalty statement, you see this, this, this... Those have gone out, yes.
You know.
Well, we have a link, a very clear link to our... Well, both to our warehouse here.
so I can plot and see, you know, what is selling and what is being returned.
And it's grim sometimes to look and see there are negative sales one week.
That's absolutely appalling.
It is.
And you know that some, you know, more returns will have come back and will have gone out, so that's grim.
But we also have a link to the American, we've got this amazing database now, which we're just beginning to get to grips with, called TMN, which is based in the American office.
Yeah, in fact, when I was over there... Did they show it to you?
Yeah, actually, Janice looked up my own book,
Oh, good.
Harper's hadn't told me how I was doing.
Oh, she could look it up.
Yes, I've not got to grips with that yet because that just shows American sales.
So she says, oh, look at your book.
Thankfully, somebody's telling me.
I mean, actually, that does bring me up to something which I think is quite important about Yale and why authors like us.
Because I think we do have this extraordinary, and I'm sure it's true in the American office, it certainly is true here, that first of all, and Gillian will tell you this,
that not only does she and Sally see the book from inception right the way through production.
They design the books with the author, they sit down with the author and design it with them, so they do the page layout together.
The author has really enormously close contacts with the editor first, and then when it comes on to us, with us too.
I think that's why we are, you know, that authors like us, and that's why they come back to us.
I mean, someone like Eamon Duffy, his book Stripping the Autars, we've sold terrifically well, a book about the Reformation.
What's the title of it, yeah?
Stripping the Autars, it's about how during the Reformation, you know, all the idols and the trappings of religion were just stripped out of all the
Christian churches, by Cromwell's armies.
Of the otters, you called it?
Oh, the altars.
Altars?
I sound like otters.
No, no, the altars.
Is that my Massachusetts accent?
No, no, it's my British accent.
Stripping the altars.
Stripping of the altars, it's called.
Has been enormously successful.
Now, that man, Eamon Duffy, the author, really could be, you know, he could get a huge advance from penguins.
But I think because he's had the thought, well, I mean, I can't take credit for this at all, but I think because he's had that sort of close relationship with his office and his editor and the sales and marketing and promotion people, he feels that he wants to do his next book with us.
Look at Jerry Pelican.
Yeah, exactly.
He could publish this.
He's gravely ill, by the way.
I know.
I'm surprised.
I have to say I'm surprised to hear that he's still alive.
I hope to see him, but it's not going to happen.
I know.
And I know that John Ryden was a sort of mentor for John Ryden.
Really?
Yeah.
And he could have gone.
Oh, he did.
I mean, his books were... Yeah, he did, too.
He did.
And Peter Gay, too.
Oh, Peter Gay.
You see, he was published by us, and then he did some books.
Van Woodward, I think, is another one.
Yeah, yeah.
Jonathan Spence has done a couple of books.
That's right, yes, yes.
People do.
Occasionally what happens is that they will do a book that they wanted to do, which they know perhaps hasn't got the trade sort of potential.
They'll do that with us.
And that's fun to do because, you know, the name... I mean, we've got a book coming by Hugh Trevor Roper in the autumn, you know, which is not a book which is going to sell desperately well, but the name will do terribly well.
I mean, it's a very, very sort of...
Esoteric subject.
Oh, how old is he?
Oh, he's dead.
He's dead for years.
But this book was left over.
You know, it's a book he'd be worked on from time to time, in between doing other things.
I know.
He's not alive any longer.
Had he been there for a long time?
I think he died in the 70s.
He died before.
He died shortly after.
I mean, it was sad because there was that terrible scandal about the Hitler diaries.
Oh, I remember that.
And that must have been when he was a very old man.
And he died, but that was the sort of last thing he did, and that was very, very sad, you know, that he was remembered for that.
He was terribly embarrassed by that.
It was awful, and it was pitiful, really.
Very, very sad that that should be the last thing.
You know what?
I'm going to... Do you mind?
No, we've had enough.
Absolutely, we must stop.
I'd like to come back.
Have you been to the library?
I'd like to see that.